Document our config files and structure (#110)
red-hat-storage/ocs-ci: conf/README.md

# Config directory

In this directory we store all the configuration for clusters and OCSCI config
files.

During the execution, via

> [ocsci pytest plugin](../pytest_customization/ocscilib.py), we are loading all

Reviewer: this statement needs to be rewritten, probably " During the execution we are loading the config file with different sections (Defaults, RUN etc) and using the values defined in the config file to render yaml with jinja2 templates " ?

the configs described below, combining them togehter and using
[jinja2](http://jinja.pocoo.org/docs/2.10/templates/#variables)
templates rendering variables which you can reuse among different configs from
DEFAULT and different sections.

This gives us the ability to easily reuse variables from context of the
yaml file itself.

> Cause you can overwrite data just in specific section like for ENV_DATA

Reviewer: I would cut the paragraph as its implied by config file context.

(see below) and if you don't overwrite data in DEFAULT section, someone can
still access old default value from DEFAULT section directly. See example of
[this cluster config file](./examples/ocs_basic_install.yml) for more details.

## OCS CI Config

We moved all the OCSCI framework related config under
[ocsci folder](./ocsci/). You can see we have defined here:

* [default_config.yaml](ocsci/default_config.yaml) - this is the default
    config file for OCS CI which is loaded automatically (don't pass it to

>     --ocsci-conf). It contains multiple sections which you can overwrite in

Reviewer: Line starting with "It contains multiple sections" should be rewritten,

"It contains multiple sections which user can overwrite in custom file and provide as an option to --oscci-conf"

    some custom config file you create or in feature we will have more config
    files defined under `ocsci` folder as well which you can reuse.

## Cluster config

If you would like to overwrite cluster default data you can create file

> similar to [this example](./examples/ocs_basic_install.yml). You can see we

Reviewer: s/You can see we can overwrite default data like/example shown overwrites below ENV data/

can overwrite default data like:

* `platform` - currently we support only AWS, but in future we will cover
    more.
* `worker_replicas` - number of replicas of worker.
* `rook_image` - which rook image can be used.
* and many more - look at the deployment templates under
    [../templates/ocs-deployment/](../templates/ocs-deployment/) and you can
    see the variables in templates. In the deploment we are using ENV_DATA
    section as data for rendering the templates whic allow us to add new
    values just in config and we don't have to also update the code on all
    places to take specific variable.

If you define cluster config you have to put all the data under `ENV_DATA`
section like in the mentioned example. Actually you can add another section as
well but in cluster config file we recommend to define just `ENV_DATA` section
or one more additional section which is `DEFAULTS` for propagation those
defaults among all configs as well.

### Sections in our configs

> All of the sections below, except for `DEFAULTS` one, will be available from

Reviewer: s/sections below/below sections/ ; s/one// ;

Author: this was suggested sentence from Elad from different review ;) , but updated in next commit.

[ocsci/config.py](../ocsci/config.py) module. `DEFAULTS` section is exposed to
[ocs/defaults.py](../ocs/defaults.py) module as described below.

#### DEFAULTS

Default values which are used among different configs and sections.

> All **capital letters** defined variables are exposed to

Reviewer: why just CAPS, why not all? you probably want to simple the next 7 lines and just say "Defaults will be exported via defaults.py"

Author: In the defaults we would like to have mainly constants. So if we follow pep8 convention constants are with CAPS. I can put there everything, cause I solved the issue with loading  this config which I will send in new commit.

[../ocs/defaults.py](../ocs/defaults.py) during the start of the execution.
So you can access those default data from `ocs/defaults.py` module directly.

In this section please put mostly just data which will be used among the other
configuration sections mentioned bellow. **If data are mostly default data
which are NOT going/suppose to be overwritten by config files. Or if the data
are NOT going to be used in any config section at all please put those data
directly to [../ocs/defaults.py](../ocs/defaults.py) module**

#### RUN

Framework RUN related config parameters.

#### DEPLOYMENT

Deployment related parameters. In deplyment we are using some config from this

> section but if its ENV specific we are using also `ENV_DATA` section to be

Reviewer: ENV mix is bit confusing, can be just moved to ENV section

able to reuse in templates.

#### REPORTING

Reporting related config. (Do not store secret data in the repository!).

#### ENV_DATA

This section is meant to be overwritten by own cluster config file, but can be
overwritten also here (But cluster config has higher priority).

## Example of accessing config/default data

```python
from ocsci.config import RUN, ENV_DATA
from ocs import defaults

# From you code you can access those data like

> # Taking data from ENV_DATA will alsways using actuall cluster_namespace

Reviewer: Can you repharse this, looks like late night edition :-)

Author: done in next commit I will send

# Config directory

> In this directory we will be storing all the configuration for clusters and

Author: done

OCSCI config files.

> During the execution we are via

Reviewer 2: This sentence is a bit unclear. Change to something like:
During the execution, via [ocsci pytest plugin](../pytest_customization/ocscilib.py), we're loading all the...

Author: done

[ocsci pytest plugin](../pytest_customization/ocscilib.py), we are loading all
the configs described below, combining them togehter and using jinja2
templates rendering variables which you can reuse among different configs from
DEFAULT and different sections.

> This gives us the ability to easily reusing variables from context of the

Author: done

> This is giving use the ability to easily reusing variables from context of the

Reviewer 2: This gives the ability to use

Author: done

yaml file itself.

Cause you can overwrite data just in specific section like for ENV_DATA
(see below) and if you don't overwrite data in DEFAULT section, someone can
still access old default value from DEFAULT section directly. See example of
[this cluster config file](./examples/ocs_basic_install.yml) for more details.

## Cluster config

If you would like to overwrite cluster default data you can create file
similar to [this example](./examples/ocs_basic_install.yml). You can see we
can overwrite default data like:

* `platform` - currently we support only AWS, but in future we will cover
    more.
* `worker_replicas` - number of replicas of worker.
* `rook_image` - which rook image can be used.
* and many more - look at the deployment templates under

>     [../templates/ocs-deployment/] and you can see the variables in templates.

Author: done

    In the deploment we are using ENV_DATA section as data for rendering the
    templates whic allow us to add new values just in config and we don't have

>     to also update the code on all places to take specific variable.

Reviewer 3: Actually, I would suggest to put this into the paragraph below the list, which describes ENV_DATA as well, and together it makes the point better.

> If you defining cluster config you have to put all the data under `ENV_DATA`

Reviewer 2: If you define

Author: done

> section like in mentioned example. Actually you can add another section as

Reviewer 2: in the mentioned example

Author: done

> well but we recommend int cluster config define just `ENV_DATA` section or one

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
well but in a cluster config file we recommend to define just `ENV_DATA` section or one
```

Author: done

more additional section which is `DEFAULTS` for propagation those defaults
among all configs as well.

> ## OCS CI Config

Reviewer 3: Now I think that it would be better to move this section to the top, making it the 1st one.  This way, you will explain that we have OCS CI config, defaults and sections in our confing. Then it is easier to describe the cluster config (where you talk about the defaults and some sections anyway, but without broader context).

Author: moved

We moved all the OCSCI framework related config under
[ocsci folder](./ocsci/). You can see we have defined here:

* [default_config.yaml](ocsci/default_config.yaml) - this is the default

>     config file for OCS CI whih is loaded automatically (don't pass it to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    config file for OCS CI which is loaded automatically (don't pass it to
```

Author: done

    --ocsci-conf). It contains multiple sections which you can overwrite in
    some custom config file you create or in feature we will have more config
    files defined under `ocsci` folder as well which you can reuse.

### Sections in our config

> All of the sections below except `DEFAULTS` section that will be available

Reviewer 2: Still need to be rephrased. Maybe something like:

All of the sections below, except for 'DEFAULTS' one, will be available from..

> All of the sections below except `DEFAULTS` section  will be available from

Reviewer 2: that will be available

Author: done

[ocsci/config.py](../ocsci/config.py) module. `DEFAULTS` section is exposed to
[ocs/defaults.py](../ocs/defaults.py) module as described below.

* DEFAULTS - default values which are used among config and all
    `capital letters` defined variables are exposed to
    [../ocs/defaults.py](../ocs/defaults.py) during the execution. So you can
    access those default data from `ocs/defaults.py` module directly.
* RUN - Framework RUN related config parameters.
* DEPLOYMENT - deployment related parameters. In deplyment we are using some
    config from this section but if its ENV specific we are using also
    `ENV_DATA` section to be able to reuse in templates.
* REPORTING - reporting related config. (Do not store secret data in the
    repository!).

> * ENV_DATA - this section is meant to be overwritten by onw cluster config

Reviewer 2: one

Author: done

    file, but can be overwritten also here (But cluster config has higher
    priority).

> 

Reviewer 3: It would be nice to have there an example how to read particular config value in python code (based either on the default config or some simple example).

## Priority of loading configs:

Lower number == higher priority

1) **CLI args** - sometime we can pass some variables by CLI parameters, in
    this case those arguments should overwrite everything and have the highest

>     priority.

Reviewer 3: Do I understand it right that so far, there is only cluster name which works this way?

Author: Yep, currently only this one but in future we may have more.
